Let’s look at another sentence: “URL.com”
Starting again from the start state we take
the uppercase letter ‘U’ transition to State 3,
then an uppercase ‘R’ transition to State 3,
another uppercase ‘L’ transition to State 3,
a full stop transition to State 4,
a lowercase ‘c’ transition back to State 3,
another lowercase ‘o’ transition to State 3,
and lastly the lowercase ‘m’ transition to State 3.
This time we are not at an accepting state,
so even though we passed through the accepting state,
the automaton does not accept
“URL.com” as a valid sentence.
However, with the addition of one more full stop,
we can make this into a sentence
accepted by the automaton.
In a more general sense, there are three
extra words we often use in Finite State Automata.
The first is called the alphabet of our automaton.
This is just a list of
all possible inputs that result in a transition.
In our example, our alphabet is ‘U’, ‘S’, and ‘L’.
The sentences we use to test
this automaton are known as strings,
which are sequences of inputs from our alphabet.
“Moo.” and “URL.com” are examples of this.
Lastly, we have a language. This is all the
possible strings that are accepted by our automaton.
“Moo.” is one of the many strings in this language,
but although “URL.com” is a string,
it is not in our language,
because it was not accepted by our automaton.